In order to add a product option choice to the frontend you can look at the way the 'only_stated_address' option has
been implemented.

First add an interface element to select the option. You can add this easily enough to the
TIG/PostNL/delivery_options/<checkout extension>/available.phtml file. Make sure the name of the element is
s_method_<method code>[postnl][<option code>]. That way the existing PostNL observers will automatically save the option
to the PostNL order table.

If this option should only be available for certain orders (e.g. only orders to the Netherlands) make sure to add code
here to only show the option if it meets the requirements.

You may also need to edit the delivery options JS, depending on what option you are trying to add and how it should
interact with delivery options. If you need to limit the option's availability to certain delivery option types, you can
again follow the example of the 'only_stated_address' option. Look at the
TIG/PostNL/delivery_options/<checkout extension>/deliveryoptions.phtml template to see how you can configure the
DeliveryOptions JS object to automatically add these limitations.

Next you need to edit the order grid to show the merchant that this option has been selected. To do this go to the
TIG_PostNL_Block_Adminhtml_Widget_Grid_Column_Renderer_Type_Abstract class and look for the _addOptionComments() method.
In this method you will find a switch statement. Add the option code you used in your interface element and add the
comment you wish to show the merchant.

Finally you need to make sure the proper product option is selected when creating the shipment. To do this go to the
TIG_PostNL_Model_Core_Shipment class and look for the _getDefaultProductCodeXpathByOptions() method. Again this method
contains a switch statement that allows you to add your option code. This method should return a valid xpath to the
product code to use for this option. If you do not wish to make this configurable, just add it as a default value to the
extension's config.xml file.

Please note that if the merchant chooses to manually select a product option, rather than use the default, your product
code will not be used. It's the merchant's prerogative to ignore the customer's choice and instead use a different
option.

If you also want to charge an additional fee for using the option you just implemented, you need to go to the
TIG_PostNL_Helper_DeliveryOptions class and look for the getOptionsFee() method. Once again this method contains a
switch statement you can expand. This method already contains all the code needed to convert the currency and calculate
applicable taxes. You can also expand the switch statement in the getOptionFee() method (note singular 'option') to
allow for easy access to the configured fee amount.

All done!